feat(getting-started): Switch from manual setup to sentry-wizard for Android and iOS in getting started (#7767)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/apple/guides/ios/manual-setup.mdx

---
title: Manual Setup
sidebar_order: 1
description: "Learn how to set up the SDK manually."
---

If you can't (or prefer not to) run the [automatic setup](/platforms/apple/guides/ios/#install), you can follow the instructions below to configure your application.

## Installation

> The minimum version for iOS is 9.0.

Reviewer: h:

```suggestion
The minimum version for iOS is 11.0.
```

> The minimum version for iOS is 11.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The minimum required version for iOS is 11.0.
```

We recommend installing the SDK with CocoaPods, but we also support alternate [installation methods](/platforms/apple/guides/ios/install/). To integrate Sentry into your Xcode project, specify it in your `Podfile`:

```ruby {filename:Podfile}
platform :ios, '11.0'
use_frameworks! # This is important

target 'YourApp' do
  pod 'Sentry', :git => 'https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa.git', :tag => '{{@inject packages.version('sentry.cocoa') }}'
end
```

Then run `pod install`.

## Configuration

> We recommend initializing the SDK on the main thread as soon as possible, such as in your AppDelegate `application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions` method:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend initializing the SDK on the main thread as soon as possible – in your AppDelegate `application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions` method, for example:
```

<SignInNote />

```swift {tabTitle:Swift}
import Sentry // Make sure you import Sentry

// ....

func application(_ application: UIApplication,
    didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplication.LaunchOptionsKey: Any]?) -> Bool {

    SentrySDK.start { options in
        options.dsn = "___PUBLIC_DSN___"
        options.debug = true // Enabled debug when first installing is always helpful
    }

    return true
}
```

```objc {tabTitle:Objective-C}
@import Sentry;

- (BOOL)application:(UIApplication *)application didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:(NSDictionary *)launchOptions {

    [SentrySDK startWithConfigureOptions:^(SentryOptions *options) {
        options.dsn = @"___PUBLIC_DSN___";
        options.debug = YES; // Enabled debug when first installing is always helpful

        // Enable tracing to capture 100% of transactions for performance monitoring.
        // Use 'options.tracesSampleRate' to set the sampling rate.
        // We recommend setting a sample rate in production.
        options.enableTracing = YES;
    }];

    return YES;
}
```

> When using SwiftUI and your app doesn't implement an app delegate, initialize the SDK within the [App conformer's initializer](<https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/app/main()>):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're using SwiftUI and your app doesn't implement an app delegate, initialize the SDK within the [App conformer's initializer](<https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/app/main()>):
```
